#sp
# Shared Memory Example

- Okay consider two processes P1 and P2, both communicating using shared memory.
- Assume they both share a variable X = 20

```
P1

my_X = shared_mem.X
if (my_X => 10) {
	my_X = my_X - 10
}
shared_mem.X = my_X

---

P2

my_X = shared_mem.X
if (my_X >= 15) {
	my_X = my_X - 15
}
shared_mem.X = my_X
```

What is the final value of X?

- If P1 executes before P2 then it'll be 10, If P2 executes before it'll be 5.

- This problem is quite similar to the bank account situation from DSR.

# Another Shared Memory Example

- Consider two threads T0 and T1 attempting to increment a count variable with a C compiler that implements count++ as

```
register1 = count 
register1 = register1 + 1 
count = register1
```

- Consider this execution interleaving with "count = 5" initially:

```
T0: register1 = count {T0 register1 = 5}
T0: register1 = register1 + 1 {T0 register1 = 6} 
T1: register1 = count {T1 register1 = 5}
T1: register1 = register1 + 1 {T1 register1 = 6} 
T1: count = register1 {count = 6} 
T0: count = register1 {count = 6}
```

**Q: Should the value of count be 6? What has gone wrong? How can we fix it?**

- We've reached a race case where both of these read the value before it was wrote to.

- The value should be 7.

- I guess this would be a case of making it more sequentially/

# A Race Condition

A race condition refers to a dependency on the execution sequence (or scheduling) of multiple processes/threads.

A race condition is a problem as soon as one or more of the possible outcomes is undesirable.

## How Can We Fix This??

Here it's simple, this doesn't really matter until we get to a specific critical situation, for example when writing, reading ore really any accessing of shared memory.

## Critical Section Solution Properties

- **Mutual Exclusion**: No two processes are in their critical section at the same time.

- **Progress**: Entering one's critical section should only be decided by it's partners and in due time (assuming no other processes are in their critical section); a process cannot immediately re-enter it's critical section if another process is waiting for their turn.

- **Bounded waiting**: It should be impossible for a process to wait indefinitely to enter it's critical section.

## Peterson's Solution

```
P1

flag_A = True
turn = B

while (flag_B == True and turn == B) {
	pass
}

my_X = shared_mem.X
if (my_X => 10) {
	my_X = my_X - 10
}
shared_mem.X = my_X

flag_A = False

---

P2

flag_B = True
turn = A

while (flag_A == True and turn == A) {
	pass
}

my_X = shared_mem.X
if (my_X >= 15) {
	my_X = my_X - 15
}
shared_mem.X = my_X

flag_B = False
```

**This is essentially just is it your turn and is are you running the critical section.**
### Is that Good Enough?

- **Busy waiting**: the waiting process eats up CPU cycles unnecessarily (a.k.a., spinlock) 

- **Memory reordering**: Modern CPUs tend to reorder the execution of memory accesses (to avoid pipeline stalls) 

Better solution: atomic instructions at the hardware level 
- "Test and set" 
- "Compare and swap"

```
test_and_set(value):
	my_value = value
	value = True 
	return my_value
```

```
compare_and_swap(value, expected, new_value):
	my_value = value 
	if value == expected:
		value = new_value
	return my_value
```

- There's nothing here stopping the process from going straight back into the critical section.

## Beyond `test_and_set` and `compare_and_swap`

- `test_and_set` and `compare_and_swap` work, but are a bit clunky and low-level.

- Alternative: **mutex locks** and **semaphores**
	- Internal state: a single integer value 
		- For mutexes can only take values 0 or 1, for semaphores only values >= 0 
	- API offers two atomic functions:

```
acquire(mutex):
	while mutex == 0:
		pass
	mutex = 0

release(mutex):
	mutex = 1

wait(semaphore):
	while semaphore <= 0:
		pass
	semaphore -= 1

signal(semaphore):
	semaphore += 1
```

- But still busy waiting/spinlocking?

- Can augment semaphores with a list of blocked processes each:
	- `wait(semaphore)` would instead add processes to said list if value is <= 0.
	- `signal(semaphore)` would instead remove one process from said queue.

## Semaphore Usage

- Set semaphore value to number or size of shared resources (i.e. number of acceptable concurrent users)
- Decrease (wait) the semaphore every time a resource is used.
- Increase (signal) the semaphore every time a resource is released.

## Bounded Buffer Problem

- Also known as the producer-consumer problem
- Assume a list where items are placed by producers, and removed by customers
- Assume we want our list to never contain more than a specific number of items
	- Imagine a shelf is full and customers take stuff off the shelf.

**Goal**: Allow producers of items to add them to the list, but have them wait first if the list is full, Allow consumers of items to remove an item from the list, but have them wait first if the list is empty

```
semaphore mutex = 1
semaphore empty = N
semaphore full = 0

producer():
	while True:
		# Produce an item
		wait(empty)
		wait(mutex) 
		# Add item to list 
		signal(mutex)
		signal(full)

consumer():
	while True:
		wait(full)
		wait(mutex) 
		# Remove an item from list
		signal(mutex)
		signal(empty) 
		# Do stuff with item
```

## Readers-Writers Problem

- Assume a variable shared among many processes, some of which only read its value (readers) while others also need to update it (writers) 
- Goal 1: When a writer accesses the variable, no other process should be able to either read or update it 
- Goal 2: When a reader accesses the variable, more readers can also access it, but writers should wait until no reader accesses it

```
semaphore rw_mutex = 1
semaphore mutex = 1
int read_count = 0

writer():
	while True:
		wait(rw_mutex) 
		# Update the value
		signal(rw_mutex)

reader():
	while True: 
		wait(mutex)
		read_count += 1 
	
		if (read_count == 1)
			wait(rw_mutex)
		
		signal(mutex)
		# Read value 
		wait(mutex)
		read_count -= 1 
	
		if (read_count == 0) 
			signal(rw_mutex)
		
		signal(mutex)
```

# Matters of Life and Death

- What would happen to writers if readers keep on arriving at the system?

- **Starvation**: Processes/threads unable to enter their critical section because of "greedy" contenders 
	- Analogy: trying to get on an extremely busy motorway with no one giving you some space 

- **Livelock**: a special case of starvation where competing parties both try to "avoid" each other at the same time
	- Analogy: bumping into a person in a corridor, then both going left/right at the same time only to bump into each other again

- **Priority inversion**: a special case of starvation where a lower priority process keeps a higher priority process waiting 
	- Analogy: having to sleep but being kept awake by social media notifications…

# Beyond Semaphores

- Semaphores/mutexes allow for mutual exclusion, but once a process is blocked, that's it! 

- **Monitors**: A combination of semaphores and condition variables 

	- Each condition variable "associated" with a semaphore 
	
	- Allows for processes to have both mutual exclusion and wait (block) on a condition 
	- `cond_wait(condvar, mutex):` unlock the mutex to wait for a condition, then atomically reacquire the mutex when condition is met 
	- `cond_signal(condvar):` unblock one of the processes waiting on condition

```
semaphore mutex = 1
condvar empty = N
condvar full = 0
list items = 0

producer():
	while True:
		# Produce an item
		wait(mutex)
		while len(items) == N:
			cond_wait(empty, mutex)
		# Add item to list 
		cond_signal(full) 
		signal(mutex)

consumer():
	while True:
		wait(mutex)
		while len(items) == 0:
			cond_wait(full, mutex) 
		# Remove an item from list 
		cond_signal(empty)
		signal(mutex) 
		# Do stuff with item
```

# Systems Programming Using a Mutex Lock in C

```c
pthread_mutex_t m; 
bool teaIsReady = false;

void *me(void* arg) {
	(void)arg;
	printf("Me: Waiting for my tea ...\n");
	pthread_mutex_lock(&m);
	while (!teaIsReady) {
		pthread_mutex_unlock(&m);
		printf("Me: (Unamused) // do nothing\n");
		pthread_mutex_lock(&m);
	}
	pthread_mutex_unlock(&m);
	printf("Me: (Happy) ... finished waiting.\n");
	return NULL;
}

void *teaRobot(void* arg) {
	(void) arg;
	printf(" Tea Robot: Making tea ...\n");
	usleep(3);
	pthread_mutex_lock(&m);
	teaIsReady = true; 
	pthread_mutex_unlock(&m);
	printf(" Tea Robot: Done!\n"); 
	return NULL;
}

int main() {
	pthread_t t1;
	pthread_t t2;
	int err; 
	
	err = pthread_mutex_init(&m, NULL); assert(err == 0);
	err = pthread_create(&t1, NULL, me, NULL); assert(err == 0);
	err = pthread_create(&t2, NULL, teaRobot, NULL); assert(err == 0);
	err = pthread_join(t1, NULL); assert(err == 0);
	err = pthread_join(t2, NULL); assert(err == 0); 
	pthread_mutex_destroy(&m);
}
```
