#apse 
# 1. **Contrasts And Similarities** in the Engineering Process

- Group Project acted very similar to work in the company, specifically more individual projects in work.
- Very similar to the app work, with less more experienced people reviewing and less experienced people tackling.
- Similar timelines
- Differences in how requirements were gathered

	- In work we had to wait on customers and even then once they reply their would only be very surface level criticism.
	
	- In the group project we were able to take the project where we wanted, at every retro we would have way more forward facing improvements and changes.

- Processes were at a minimum, we obviously had commit conventions and merging conventions but we didn't have anything specifically stating how we should create issues and reply, there was a standard set out but people could go against this.

# 2. **Good And Bad Examples** of Engineering Process

# 3. An **Improvement** to Your Own Team's Software Engineering Process, in Retrospect

- We had very differing experience, as much as I believe the less experienced should be tackling issues and these should be reviewed by the experienced devs, we had a lot of issues with timing, issues got bounced back in review with 40 odd comments which was just demotivating for someone just starting. There's a few ways we could try to work around this:

	- Reviewer would review while `@`'ing the dev then tackle themself, although this does remove a lot of the learning from the idea of tackling.

	- Reviewers could take over issues if over 40 comments then reassign for review, but then you would have the issue of a new reviewer having to understand the context.


- Discuss the steakholder meetin which we had with the other team and compare, note they did seem to work faster and better, think why?
	- Possibly a case of sticking to skillsets more?
	- Maybe more strict teams?

# 4. Handling the Unexpected, the So-called **curveball**

- We balanced all previous work out almost evenly so I was the next in line to take on work, the curveball although a large change in our theme didn't require too many changes to be implemented. Due to how we built out the query builder and sessions this became incredibly easy.


**Other Team**

  

- No deleting cards

  

- Django

- SQLLite

  

- Sprint 3

- Test Coverage

  

- CSV population is cool
- Soo Agile

- Split teams up in backend in frontend
- Mark handled db
- Built from ground up step by step
- Natasha handled styling and up
- Emily is project manager
- MRs built up and hadn't been merged, reviews were slow,

- When separated there wasn't solid comms
- Unsure when able to share to master
- Messages in channel for MRs

  

- Versions were mixed up and found difficult to develop on top.
- Splitting teams allowed people to work individually while still collaborating, also reduced merge conflicts
- 2nd Sprint became more organised when it comes to seeing progress.
- 2nd sprint mostly focused on styling

  

- Miro for retros THEY HAD AN ISLAND

- First one was start, stop, continue

- Voting to decide what to talk about

- Second one was using the island

- Shout out a team member was cute

  

- Adding in listing and CI/CD pipeline
- Filter by category
- Pretty happy with Project
- Backlog refinement

- Planning helped divy out work between devs

  

- Tackling bugs in single issues.
- Split up work very efficiently, split docs and made sure people were tackling equal amounts of work.

- Documentation was just split between people by asking who wants it

  

- Considered skill set when splitting out work