#ui 

**This sounds a bit dumb but think about the How I Met Your Mother episode [Life Among the Gorrilas](https://how-i-met-your-mother.fandom.com/wiki/Life_Among_the_Gorillas), Marshal must delve into the social life of the bank he works in to do better in the job. He gains a better understanding of the Culture by getting involved with the Gorillas.**

Ethnography is a practice of understanding and describing social and cultural scenes from an insider's perspective. 

**Originally used in western cultures to understand more non-western cultures.**

**Requires fieldwork**:
- Dispassionate observation insufficient - engage directly with people in their everyday lives.
- Get insights otherwise impossible/difficult to get via other methods.

**Remember the PHD student who plays in VR and studies how people create avatars and why they do specific things.**

# Perspectives

- Ethnographer is a human instrument.
	- Senses, thoughts, feelings; very sensitive and perceptive data.
- Gathering tool
- Focus on predictable, daily patterns of human thought and behaviour
- Interpret observed behaviour in culturally relevant context.
- Allow multiple interpretations of data/reality
- Open minded approach - allows exploration of rich sources of data not mapped out in research design.

- Bias
	- All researchers have bias; make it explicit.
	- e.g. choice of what to study is biased. Controlled, can focus and limit research effort; uncontrolled can undermine research quality.

# Fieldwork

- Being there, observe, ask insightful questions.
- **Interviewing**: Some would say the most important technique.
	- Explain and put into context what you see.
	- Study every word for subcultural connotations.
- Document what you've seen and heard
- Notepads, audio, video, photo, survey
	- Analysis at various stages.

## [The German and the Finnish guy buys Boiler suits](https://finland.fi/life-society/whats-the-deal-with-the-overalls-you-see-university-students-wearing-in-finland/)

Finnish Students have a culture of wearing boiler suits and adding badges, there was a German guy who moved over and wanted to know more, rather than just researching he bought for himself and went out. He ended up writing up a paper on this.

# Ethnography in HCI

- Computers are used for communication / collaboration
- How systems are used?
-  Consists of a **combination of observation**, **interviews**, **participation methods**

Involves understanding
-  the problem, context, Groups, group interactions, new technologies (but also old systems).

Involves **Participatory Design** in different stages of design cycle
- **Participatory Design** is making the end user a participant in the design. A way to do Human Centred design. 

- Early stages to gain deep understanding of system requirements 
- Later stages to gain deep understanding of how a product is being used (in a particular setting, or by a particular group), so can redesign to better support users 
- Study a combination of range of technologies in a particular setting

# Designing a New System for Unfamiliar Domain

- Example: Design of a new healthcare information management system in a different country 
- You may need to observe users, workplace etc.
- Can be rooted in context of how target users work and interact
	- Organisational concerns (unfamiliar domain)
	- Work practices (specific to healthcare or the culture) 
	- People's values and dynamics (cultural) 
	- Types of interactions between people
	
- Don't assume users are 'just like you' (we cover more of this in the ethical class in later weeks)
# Ethnography in Online Communities

- Analyse collaborative play in World of Warcraft
	- Authors performed a lot of gameplay – active participants 
	- Wanted to know what players were experiencing 
	- Make recommendations to improve

# Autoethnography

- Autoethnography is a genre of ethnography that draws on your own lived experiences rather than the traditional "objective ethnographies" which some see as an attempt to accurate descriptions of the world.
-  Involves your own point of view, situating you as the protagonist and narrator

- Iylena done this by developing a system for her dog to face time her through the day.

This has a few challenges:

- Requires a lot of skills
	- Skills in conversation
	- Data interpretation
	- What to pay attention to (and that it can change)
	
- Expensive, time-consuming
- You've got the risk of becoming native.
- Often used in 3 contexts
	- Users not well understood 
	- Tasks not well understood 
	- Safety-critical systems

# Participant Observation

- One can be a **complete participant**
	- Become part of community as much as possible 
	- May take years 
	- **Risk**: losing ability to be detached – "going native" 
	- Covert observation – don't tell community you're a researcher. 
	- Ethically challenging!

- Or, a **complete observer**
	- Opposite end of scale. Don't interact directly 
	- Can integrate quicker into 'own' culture – already an 'insider' 
	- But if too familiar, can take events for granted and leave data unrecorded

# Designing an Interview

- Start with a Survey 
	- Designed to elicit a broad picture of the participant's experience 
	- Good for building rapport and establishing the scope of interviews
	
- Survey should include Specific Questions (see previous weeks)
	- Designed to gather feedback on specific categories, attributes, and themes

- Ask both Open and Close Ended Questions
	- see other slides for details of closed/open 
	- Balance of structured and unstructured responses

**Should always do semi-structured.**

- Many issues familiar from survey lecture
	- e.g. recall bias – if asking about past behaviour, do it soon after
	
- Close-ended questions 
	- "Do you have previous experience with VR?" 

- Open-ended questions 
	- "Tell me about your previous experience with VR?"

- Might be better to do as interview rather than survey
	- Probably longer open-ended answers 
	- Can ask follow-up questions 
	- But much more time consuming

- Can do interview and survey together (nice combination of research methods)

# Running an Interviews

- Respect for the context the interviewee is coming from 
- Respect for the interviewee

- Strategies
	-  Be honest, be yourself 
	- Focus on learning from participants 
	- Be perceptive, know when to press and when to let go 
	- Understand silence and use it (important!!!!) 
		- Doctors use this quite well, they go silent making you talk more.

	- Being a good interviewer is a skill you can develop with experience

# Key Actors

- In ethnographic setting, "some people are more articulate and culturally sensitive than others"
-  You will also find some users respond better to your ideas, provide more useful feedback, and act as "star users"
- Balance star users or key actors with the dataset

# Analysing Qualitative Dataset

- Analysing data from e.g.
	- interviews
	- focus groups (a group of participants)
	- open-ended questionnaire responses from surveys
	
- Transcribe any audio data
	- Should really try Otter, would be a really nice thing to add for obsidian.
- Familiarise yourself with all data.

-  Inductive approaches: Thematic analysis 
	- Go through the data and identify "themes", these themes become your outcomes.

- Affinity diagrams are one of the easiest ways to do thematic analysis with a group or by yourself (normally in group to avoid bias)

	- **Pros**: Pulls the main concepts of the data out, Easy for someone else to understand, Themes are grounded in the data with clear examples 
	
	- **Cons**: Only works with a small amount of data (typically depends on the amount of people) and may require more than one person to improve validity
	
- **Qualitative Coding** – loosely separated 'stages'

- **Stage 1. Open coding** 
	- Identify distinct pieces of information; assign open code 
	- In-vivo coding: use participants' own words to define codes
	- Size / scope of pieces determined by researcher's interpretive process
	
- **Stage 2. Axial coding** 
	- Organise open codes into set of concepts / categories 
	- Think about relationships between concepts 
	- Don't need to all be same level of specificity, or need even numbers of codes assigned 

- **Stage 3. Selective coding** 
	- In grounded theory, combing concepts into main theory 
	- Re-code original transcripts using new concept framework 
	- Can verify with multiple coders at various stages

- Can verify with multiple coders at various stages.