#ui
# **Task 1:**

In your teams, write five interview questions on one of the topics below (same as the survey topics from yesterday):  

- **Option 1**: Measure how frequently people play mobile games in the workplace. 
- **Option 2**: Measure student's attitudes to using AI to write assignments. <-

For these questions, look at the answers you got yesterday and see what more information you would like.  
  
**(15 mins)**  

## Questions - Semi Structured

Please go deeper with most of these questions, this is very anonymous.

- **Q1**: If so, how do you think AI could be productively by students in an assignment?

- **Q2**: How do you think we should restrict AI in assignments if at all.

- **Q3**: Is there certain fields in which AI should be encouraged?
	- If so which ones
	- Why do these differ

# **Task 2:**

Split your group in half, and send half of your group to interview another group using the set of questions you created. The other half remains and gets interviewed by the other group.  
  
**(10 mins)**  
  
# **Task 3:**

Talk in your group about what you found and how this can help towards the research question and what you learned about interviewing, and being interviewed.

**(10 mins)**

## Responses

- **How do you think AI effects productivity**
    - ⁠Makes you lazy; you don't need to research; ChatGPT does it for you.
    - Negatives and positives are less knowledge and more productivity. Gives a head start but reliance.
    
- **Do you understand an assignment as much as without AI**
	- Surprisingly understand it more, **AI** does explain it very well.
	
- **How should AI be restricted:**
	- No point in restricting it, life will find a way.
	- Absolutely should try if there's a tool out there to do.
	- Against restricting for disclosing.
	- Possibly enforcing through having people defend their implementation and test knowledge
		- This would be hard to enforce across the board.

- **Are there certain fields in which AI should be encouraged**:
	- Simple tasks where we understand, automation.
	- More simple tasks in daily life should be automated through AI, the example given was primary teacher.
	- Although they disagree with AI being used for critical things, they mentioned Auto Makers for essays.
	- Code Generation is okay but only for more mundane things, this can make it way more efficient.
		- A good quote was if we don't understand a task how can we validate an AI does.
		
	- Very much against it's use in the Arts
		- Surprisingly this extended into essay writing, there was back and forth on whether grammar checkers should be allowed with the justification being that's similar to us using AI to generate code, with the disagreement coming from the fact it's just so standard arguing that the inbuilt tool from word doesn't differ that much from Mr GPT.

	- Should be lenient towards Stem students when it comes to essays
		- Our base is in maths and code, essays for us aren't as emphasised.

- **In your experience have you found your use of AI to detectable?**:
	- Not particularly, but unsure whether it can be.
	- They believe we should be trying to detect it but they didn't think it was possible.

## Reflection

### Interviewer

Confrontational questions needed to be eased into, as an interviewer when the topic is controversial it was challenging phrasing questions.

### Interviewee

I found the more direct questions slightly uncomfortable to answer with no tone set before at the beginning.

With AI being a more controversial area, the bias of the interviewer became a bit of a concern when answering questions.
