#dsf
# Question 1

How do we do basic arithmetical operations (addition, multiplication of 2 arrays as well as scalar addition and multiplication) on vectors?

- **A**: By considering each vector as a single scalar with `cumsum`
- **B**: By considering each vector as a single scalar with `cumprod`
- **C**: We normalise each vector
- **D**: By element wise operations <---

Remember back to previous units.
# Question 2

What is the purpose of normalising a vector?

- **A**: To change it's direction
- **B**: To make it's component equal
- **C**: To increase it's magnitude
- **D**: To make it's length equal to 1 <---

Normalising a vector means scaling it to have a length (or magnitude) of 1, while preserving its original direction, resulting in a unit vector. This is done by dividing each component of the vector by its magnitude.

# Question 3

How do you normalise a vector `v`?

- **A**: Subtract the vector's length from each component
- **B**: Multiply each component by the vector's length
- **C**: Divide each component by the vector's length <---
- **D**: Add the vector's length to each component

Imagine it like an average.

# Question 4

If `v = [3, 4]`, what is the normalised vector `u`?

- **A**: `[0.6, 0.8]` <----
- **B**: `[0.8, 9.6]`
- **C**: `[3, 4]`
- **D**: `[1, 1]`

We don't need to the maths here we can just assume, the normalised vector will follow a similar pattern to the vector.

# Question 5

If you have the `array = np.array([2, 4, 7, 9])` what is it's **L1** norm?

- **A**: The euclidean norm: `np.sqrt(2**2+4**2+7**2+0**2)`
- **B**: The taxi-cab norm: `2 + 4 + 7`
- **C**: The count of non-zero elements: 3
- **D**: The maximum element of the array: 7

A vector norm is a function that assigns a non-negative real number to each vector, quantifying its size or length.

- **L1 Norm (Manhattan Distance):** The sum of the absolute values of the vector's components. 

- **L2 Norm (Euclidean Norm):** The square root of the sum of the squares of the vector's components, representing the standard Euclidean distance. 

- **Lp Norm:** A generalisation of **L1** and **L2** norms, where p is a positive real number. 

- **Infinity Norm (Max Norm):** The maximum absolute value of the vector's components. 

# Question 6

How does the inner product of the two vectors tell us about the angle between two vectors?

- **A**: The inner product is the radians value of the radians of the angle between two vectors

- **B**: If the vectors are normalised to length 1, the inner product is the cosine of the angle between the vectors. <---

- **C**: The inner product of the two vectors represents the projection of one vector onto another, scaled by the magnitude of both, allows us to infer the angle between the vectors.

- **D**: The inner product is the product of the angles of the two vectors: we infer the difference between these angles to give the angle between the vectors. 

An inner product $(R^N × R^N) → R$ measures the angle between two real vectors. It is related to the cosine distance.

# Question 7

How do geometric properties change as the dimensionality of a vector space increases?

- **A**: The space becomes denser
- **B**: The distance between points becomes more variable
- **C**: The space becomes sparser <----
- **D**: The main properties of the space remains unchanged regardless of dimensionality.

Imagine this as a bucket with a two toys in it, move it into a bath the toys will get more spread out.