#dsf
# Question 1

How do we represent several vectors of observations of some data for efficient use in machine learning?

- **A**: We store the data in a matrix with each row being an observation of all the data points and each column being an element of the data.
- **B**: We store the data in a matrix with each column being an observation of all the data points and each row being an element of the data. <-----
- **C**: We have a Python list that stores the names of each of the vectors, which are stored in 1D arrays.
- **D**: We store the data in an n-dimensional tensor, where n is the number of elements in each observation.

Columns are an observation of data and rows are elements of data.

# Question 2

How are matrices viewed in the context of linear maps.

- **A**: As a collections of numbers.
- **B**: As transformations that preserve linear relationships. <----
- **C**: As vectors in a high-dimensional space.
- **D**: As containers for storing data.

This means when the transformation is applied the distances will stay fixed, not the same value but they will change relative to each other.

# Question 4

What are the rows and columns of a matrix.

**A**: Rows represent variables, columns represent observations.
**B**: Rows represent observations, columns represent variables. <------
**C**: Rows and columns represent different dimensions of the data.
**D**: Rows and columns have no specific interpretation.

Same as before in **Question 1**.

# Question 5

For an unweighted graph with adjacency matrix **x**, what does `np.sum(x, axis=0)` about the graph.

- **A**: The number of non-zero values of x.
- **B**: The in degree of each node.
- **C**: The out degree of each node.
- **D**: The number of nodes in x.

```python
in_degrees = np.sum(adj, axis=0)
out_degrees = np.sum(adj, axis=1)
```

# Question 7

What is the effect of applying the linear map represented by the following matrix to a 2d object?

```
0.25 0.00
0.00 1.00
```

- **A**: rotation by 90 degrees
- **B**: non-uniform scaling in x only <---
- **C**: non-uniform scaling in y only
- **D**: flip left-right

# Question 8

What is the geometric interpretation of the matrix AA in the equation Ax = b?

- **A**: A represents a reflection
- **B**: A represents a rotation
- **C**: A represents a scaling
- **D**: All of the above <------