- [[Software Engineering/Year 2/Practical Algorithms/Slides/7. Counting/Counting.pdf]]

You know and use the "rules" I am about to explain.

# The Product Rule
The Product Rule: *A procedure* can be broken down into a sequence of two tasks.

- **IF** There are $n_1$ ways to do the first tasks and $n_2$ ways to do the second tasks.
- **THEN** then there are $n_1 * n_2$ ways to do the procedure

## Example
Suppose a password on a computer system consists of 4 characters.

- Each must be a digit or character
	- 10 + 26 different options
- There are no other constraints
- How many such passwords are there?
	- $36^4$

# The Sum Rule

- **IF** a task can be done either in one of $n_1$ ways OR in one of $n_2$.
- **WHERE** none of the elements of $n_1$ ways is the same as any of the $n_2$ ways.
- **THEN** there are $n_1 + n_2$ ways to do the task.

## Example
Suppose statement labels in a programming language can be either

- a single letter OR 
- a single digit. 

Find the number of possible labels.
- $26 + 10 = 36$

## The Sum Rule in terms of Sets

Let's say set A consists of the $n_1$ ways the task can be done in one way and set B consists of the $n_2$ ways the task can be done in another way.

- Then $A \cup B$ contains all possible ways the task can be done 
- So we can find the total options/ways by finding the cardinality of this Union (i.e. the number of elements in $A \cup B$)

# Can You Solve This Using Product and/or Sum?
How many bit strings of length 8 either start with a 1 or end with 00 (or both)?

- there are $2^8$ bit strings of length 8
- there are $2^7$ bit strings of length 8 that start with a 1
- there are $2^6$ bit strings of length 8 that end with 00

- using sum rule
	- but we have over-counted
	- adding in twice the strings that start with 1 and end with 00.

# Principle of Inclusion-Exclusion
**Principle of Inclusion-Exclusion**: If a task can be done either in one of $n_1$ ways or in one of $n_2$ ways, then the total number of ways to do the task is $n_1 + n_2$ **minus the number of ways to do the task that are common to the two different ways.**

# The Sum and Product Rules - Example

- Suppose that a password is of length between 4 and 6 characters, consists of letters and digits, and is case sensitive
- how many distinct passwords are there? 
- how many contain at least one letter and at least one digit? 
- how long would it take a hacker to test all passwords at 109 tests per second?

There are $62^r$ where r is the length.
$62^4 + 62^5 + 62^6$

# The Pigeonhole Principle
If a flock of 13 pigeons roosts in a set of 12 pigeonholes, one of the pigeonholes must have more than 1 pigeon.

**Pigeonhole Principle**: If k is a positive integer and k + 1 objects are placed into k boxes, then at least one box contains two or more objects.

```
if n objects are placed in k containers, then at least one container has at least ceil(n/k) objects or m = ceil (n/k)
```

## Example
What if there were 1000 people? there must be at least ***?*** with the same birthday, because there are only 366 possible birthdays.

- 1000 / 366 = 2.73224
- There are at least 3 people with the same birthday.

# 7.1.1 Counting - Problem Set
- [x] 🔽 7.1.1 Counting - Problem Set ✅ 2025-02-18

1. Suppose that a password is of length between 6 and 8 characters, consists of letters and digits, and is case-sensitive. 

	(a) How many distinct passwords are there? 
		$62^6 + 62^7 + 62^8$ 
	(b) How many contain at least one letter and at least one digit? 
		$\text{Only letters}=52^6+52^7+52^8$
		$\text{Only digits}=10^6+10^7+10^8$
		$$\text{Only letters and Only Digits}=(10^6+10^7+10^8) + (52^6+52^7+52^8)$$
		$$\text{Passwords with Digits and Letters} = \text{Only letters and Only Digits} - (\text{Only letters} + \text{Only Digits})$$
		
	(c) How long would it take a hacker to test all passwords at 2.8 × 109 tests per second?
		
	
2. How many bit strings of length seven either begin with two 0's or end with three 1's?

3. How many bit strings of length ten have:

	(a) exactly three 0's? 
	(b) the same number of 0's as 1's? 
	(c) at least seven 1's? 
	(d) at least three 1's?

4. How many bit strings of length eight either start with two 1's, or end with two 1's, or have four 1's in the middle four places?


