#apse
#### [Heddleston's "The Null Process"](https://www.kateheddleston.com/blog/the-null-process)

# Intro

A team's efficiency is largely determined by its processes, and one of the key ideas in Heddleston's "The Null Process" is the potential consequences of **null** processes (situations where a process is either missing or poorly explained). While the article might come across as dry overall, it brings up really interesting points, particularly around the stigma associated with processes. As Heddleston states, "Our fear of 'unnecessary process' has created workplaces with something worse than bad process: no process." This stigma is seen as a massive issue, especially in fast-moving startups, where some argue that addressing it directly could lead to huge improvements. In contrast, others claim it might actually diminish productivity.

# Trust in the Individual

In my experience, I've encountered many situations similar to those described in Heddleston's text. Looking blankly at a screen, unsure if I'd approached a problem correctly and met the expectations set out. According to Heddleston, this is a scenario where a new process should be implemented to help guide decision-making. However, this is where I diverge from this text. When I faced a similar situation and asked for guidance, I was instead told to observe how others had handled similar issues. 

This experience highlights one of the biggest things Heddleston's missed: **context and pre-requisites matter**. If the necessary information is out there and is well communicated, individuals should be able to decide the appropriate course of action without relying on a formalised process. In such cases, fostering an environment where resources and knowledge are widely available can often be more beneficial than the imposition of rigid processes. This not only allows an individual to work independently without help from other members in their team it also gives them a better understanding of what they're doing as opposed to following a set checklist.

# Processes at Different Scales

This hesitance to process might be quite telling of my experience, all I've had experience with is in a smaller company. That's another thing that isn't mentioned in Heddleston's text, the importance of processes in a team massively depends on a company's scale and speed, like I mentioned before. Startups, especially in the early stages, tend to stray away from the traditional process approach and stick to a more "if it works, it works" mindset, this approach can help keep them stay agile and quick to adapt. However, as they scale, they normally need to introduce more structured processes to accommodate a growing team with diverse experiences and working styles.

At larger scales, I find myself seeing it more from Heddleston's perspective. In the past few months, there's been quite massive change and growth at my company. This has been really evident in the amount of processes being put in place. While I would argue that some of them are unnecessary, there is one that I strongly believe was needed: the process for rebasing customer websites onto later versions. Previously, this was a case of rebasing, testing, and pushing. This was an insane approach for such a critical and complex task, yet it worked and worked well, it was only 12 or so developers doing it and they all had a common understanding of how it's done. However, as we expanded and new developers took on this responsibility, differing interpretations of the workflow led to errors. Implementing a structured process helped mitigate these inconsistencies and ensured a smoother transition for customer sites.

When teams must coordinate between 20 to 30 employees, I've found the need for well-defined processes becomes increasingly potent. Startups that don't adapt to the more structured approach may find themselves struggling with inconsistency and preventable mistakes. The key challenge here is in identifying the right time to formalise the company and swap to a more structured system.

# Automation in place of Processes

Heddleston describes how automation can reduce human error although I don't think she really emphasised how this can actually remove the need for most processes. I'm of the strong belief that anything that can be laid out as a step-by-step process can and should be automated. I've seen situations reinforcing this time and time again.

A prime example comes from my experience working on an app with a small team - just me and one other developer, I handled the infrastructure, including deployment and CI/CD, while my colleague focused on development however there was a large issue with this division of work, the developer I was working with had no understanding of the deployment process.

Initially, I saw this as an opportunity to introduce a structured process, but I very quickly realised the mistake I made. Despite the process being clear and all steps being listed, almost every time we attempted to deploy there would be issues, not issues due to the process being unclear or lacking steps. It was due to inevitable human error, which can't be blamed on the developer it should just be expected. This created massive slowdowns in deploys while I wasn't there.

Rather then repeatedly attempting to refine the process to no improvement, we opted to implement a CI/CD pipeline to handle this automatically, While this reduced my colleague's direct knowledge of the process, it was a worthwhile trade-off. He saw no real benefit in following a manual checklist when automation could handle the task more efficiently and consistently. This experience reinforced my belief that process-heavy tasks should be streamlined through automation whenever possible. As Heddleston states, "Create internal tools that automate and minimise process so that computers are in charge of remembering the steps to complete a task instead of humans."

# Conclusion

In the end, the key takeaway for me is that processes are important but must evolve based on the needs of the team and the company. There will be times where a clear, formalised process is needed to avoid devolving into chaos. But there will also be moments where adaptability, collaboration, and trust will drive better results. 

The challenge, therefore, is finding the right balance between structure and freedom (between process and autonomy) so that efficiency is maximised without stifling creativity or growth. By recognising when processes should be implemented, refined, or even replaced with automation, companies can foster a work environment that promotes both productivity and innovation.