- [[Software Engineering/Year 2/Practical Algorithms/Slides/8. Formal Reasoning/Propositional Logic.pdf]]

# The Crux: Logic and Proofs

- Logic formally specifies the meaning of **STATEMENTS**
- It's the basis of
	- all MATHEMATICAL reasoning
	- all AUTOMATED reasoning
		- which is why you are studying it!

- Proofs are **CORRECT MATHEMATICAL ARGUMENTS**
	- Important in Math's
	- Important in Comp Sci
		- Proof that programs produce the correct output for all possible input
		- Show that **Algorithms** always produce the correct result
		- Establish security of a computer system
		- Foundation of Automata Theory and Theoretical Comp Sci
		- Compiler Construction
		- Create AI

# Explore!!!!

- [ ] 🔽 Look into some resources for Propositional Logic

***These would be good things to take a look at***

Logic In Our Time 
**Melvyn Bragg** and his guests discuss the history of logic, the study of reasoning and argument.
<https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00vcqcx>

# Propositional Logic

## Logic

- Logic is the basis of all mathematical reasoning.
	- It is more fundamental than mathematics.

- The rules of logic give precise meaning to statements

- Provides a methodology for objectively reasoning about the truth or falsity of such statements.

- All systems use a specific `FIXED, FORMAL LANGUAGE`

- Two of the most widely studied are:
	- Propositional Logic (This Topic)
	- First-Order Logic [[Software Engineering/Year 2/Practical Algorithms/Units/8. Formal Reasoning/8.2 Predicate Logic & Quantifiers]]

## Description

Propositional Logic is the:

- Logic of Compound Statements
	- Built from
- Simpler Statements
	- Using
- Boolean Connectives

Some applications in computing science
- Design of digital electronic circuits
- Expressing conditions in programs
- Queries to databases and search engines

> We've been using propositional logic for a while now but now we are going deeper into it, learning more advanced topics and reinforcing fundamentals.

# Explore!
- [ ] 🔽 Boolean Logic and Logic Gate Exploration.

- Boolean Logic & Logic Gates: Crash Course Computer Science #3 
	- Discusses logic in context of computer hardware (which you were concerned in the course CANS), but still a good introduction to the basic operations 
	- <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gI-qXk7XojA> 

- The longer watch: The Genius of George Boole 
	- <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hljir_TyTEw>

# Propositions

Positions are the basic building blocks of logic
- declarative scentences that are either true or false.

Examples
- I am Cool - True
- Everyday is Friday - False

## Exercises

1. It is always sunny in Philadelphia / Y
2. Surely, you must be joking? / N
3. Can you please keep quiet. / N
4. Socrates is a man. / Y
5. x = 4 / Y
6. x * x = x2 / N

## Notation

Truth is represented with:
- True or alternatively written 1 or T
- False or alternatively written 0 or F

Lower case letters usually used to represent propositions
- Typically use the letters p, q, r

## Connectives

### Connectives; Natural Language Vs Formal Logic

- Natural languages have "Connectives"; words that connect phrases together in a grammatically correct manner.

- We are more interested in "Logical Connectives"; similar to natural language connectives but more precise, and formal.

### Description

- Used to generate new mathematical statements by combining one or more propositions 

- Generated statements are called compound propositions or formulae

- We use capital letters to denote such statements 
	- typically use the letters P, Q, R, …

We will use truth tables which display the relationship between the truth value of a formula and the truth values of the propositions (and subformulae) within it.

### Negation

**Example**:
- let p be the proposition "today is Friday"
- then $\neg p$ is the proposition "it's not Friday"

Truth Table for this

| $p$ | $\neg p$ |
| --- | -------- |
| 0   | 1        |
| 1   | 0        |

### Conjunction (AND)

**Example**:
- let p be the proposition "today is Friday"
- let q be the proposition "it is raining"
- then $p \wedge q$ is "today is Friday and it is raining"

### Disjunction (OR)

**Example**:
- let p be the proposition "I have cash" 
- let q be the proposition "I have credit card" 
- then $p \vee q$ ("p or q") is the proposition "I have cash, or credit card (or both)"

### Side Note: Why We Need Humans in the Loop

This compound statement is logically correct: 

- The charge on an electron is negative 
- **OR** 
- Waqar is an amphibious shape-shifting alien

### Exclusive Or (XOR)

**Example**: 
- let p be the proposition "the user is asked for pin" 
- let q be the proposition "the user is asked for password" 
- then $p \oplus q$ ("p xor q") is the proposition "either user is asked for pin or user is asked for password, but not both"

### Ah Nostalgia!

Computers work in binary (0 and 1's) and all computation a computer performs (on a chip) reduces to the operations 

- negation or NOT gate 
- conjunction or AND gate 
- disjunction or OR gate 
- exclusive-or or XOR gate 
- and their inverted versions

So any program you write in Java, C, Python… when compiled, it is reduced to these operations on bits…

### Implications

Example: 
- let p be the proposition "three incorrect pins entered" 
- let q be the proposition "account is frozen" 
- then $p\rightarrow q$ ("p implies q") is the proposition "if three incorrect pins entered, then account is frozen"

| $p$ | $q$ | $q \rightarrow q$ |
| --- | --- | ----------------- |
| 0   | 0   | 1                 |
| 0   | 1   | 1                 |
| 1   | 0   | 0                 |
| 1   | 1   | 1                 |

**Examples**:

|p|q|p➝q|Explanation|
|---|---|---|---|
|0|0|1|it was not sunny and you did not take me to the beach (no problem)|
|0|1|1|it was not sunny and you did take me to the beach (a bonus)|
|1|0|0|it was sunny and you did not take me to the beach (contract broken)|
|1|1|1|it was sunny and you took me to the beach (good|

### Logical Equivalence

In the world of formal logic, if two statements are logically equivalent, that means they are effectively saying the exact same thing, only in different ways.

In other words, you could say that the "information content" of two logically equivalent statements is exactly the same.

If you were to create truth table of two logically equivalent statements, it would be IDENTICAL. 

More on this later..

### Implications; Modifications

Other implications that can be formed from $p \rightarrow q$

- converse $q \rightarrow p$
- contrapositive $\neg q \rightarrow p$
- inverse $\neg p \rightarrow q$

| p   | q   | $p \rightarrow q$ | $q \rightarrow p$ | $\neg q \rightarrow p$ | $\neg p \rightarrow \neg q$ |
| --- | --- | ----------------- | ----------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------- |
| 0   | 0   | 1                 | 1                 | 0                      | 1                           |
| 0   | 1   | 1                 | 0                 | 1                      | 1                           |
| 1   | 0   | 0                 | 1                 | 0                      | 0                           |
| 1   | 1   | 1                 | 1                 | 0                      | 1                           |

### Biconditional - If and only if

Think of $p \rightarrow q$ as a contract  
- the contract holds, or it does not

The computer boots if correct password is entered 
- written another way: if correct password entered, then computer boots 
- p: correct password entered 
- q: computer boots

| p   | q   | $p \leftrightarrow q$ | What does this mean?                                    |
| --- | --- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| 0   | 0   | 1                     | If correct password not entered, computer does not boot |
| 0   | 1   | 0                     | If correct password not entered, computer boots (Broke) |
| 1   | 0   | 0                     | Correct password but computer doesn't boot (Broke)      |
| 1   | 1   | 1                     | Correct password and computer boots                     |

### Connectives - Precedence

We can construct compound propositions from propositions using

**the connectives we have introduced** 
- we use parentheses to specify the order the connectives are applied 
- important as this order will change the truth values of statements

**Example**:
- If $(p \vee q) \wedge r$ is true
	- (p or q) and r
- if $p \vee (q \wedge r)$ is true
	- p or (q and r)

# Tautologies and Contradictions

**A tautology is a formula that is always true** 
- classic examples: p➝p (if p, then p) and p∨¬p (either p or not p)

**A contradiction is a formula that is always false** 
- classic examples: • p➝¬p (if p, then not p) 
- p∧¬p (p, and not p)

# Contingency

**If a formula is NEITHER a tautology, NOR a contradiction, then it is a CONTINGENCY** 
- examples: p➝q, p∨q and p∧q

# Satisfiable Formulas

If there is at least one assignment of truth values to its variables that makes it true.

- Tautologies are (obviously) satisfiable 
	- they are ALWAYS true

- Contingencies are satisfiable: 
	- there will be some (at least) one case which makes it true
	- i.e. at least one row in the truth table will be true 

- Contradictions are NOT satisfiable 
	- Never true

# Logical Equivalence

Two syntactically (i.e. textually) different compound propositions ( formulae)
may be semantically identical (i.e. have the same meaning) 
- it such cases they are called logically equivalent 

The statement $P \equiv Q$ expresses that P is logically equivalent to Q 
- given any assignment to the propositions appearing in P and Q, the truth values of P and Q are the same

## Laws of Logical Equivalence

### Identity
- P ∧ true ≡ P 
- P ∨ false ≡ P 

- i.e. `TRUE` is the identify for `CONJUNCTION` 
- `FALSE` is the identity for `DISJUNCTION`

### Domination
- P ∨ true ≡ true 
- P ∧ false ≡ false

### Idempotent
- P ∧ P ≡ P 
- P ∨ P ≡ P

### Double Negation Law
- $\neg (\neg P) \equiv P$

### Commutative
- P ∧ Q ≡ Q ∧ P
- P ∨ Q ≡ Q ∨ P

### Associative
-  (P ∧ Q) ∧ R ≡ P ∧ (Q ∧ R) 
- (P ∨ Q) ∨ R ≡ P ∨ (Q ∨ R)

### Distributive
- P ∨ (Q ∧ R) ≡ (P ∨ Q) ∧ (P ∨ R) 
- P ∧ (Q ∨ R) ≡ (P ∧ Q) ∨ (P ∧ R) 

Consider when (P ∨ Q) ∧ (P ∨ R) is true 
- i.e. when (P or Q) and (P or R) holds 
- if P holds, then we are good (since both sides of the "and" hold) 
- if P does not hold, then BOTH Q and R must hold for the formula to be true 
- so… P or (Q and R)

### De Morgan
- ¬(P ∧ Q) ≡ ¬P ∨ ¬Q 
- ¬(P ∨ Q) ≡ ¬P ∧ ¬Q

### Contradiction
- $P \wedge \neg P \equiv false$

### Tautalogy
- $P \vee \neg P \equiv true$
# Problem Set 8.1.2: Logical Equivalence
- [ ] 🔽 Problem Set 8.1.2: Logical Equivalence

1. Show the following equivalences hold by using the laws of logical equivalence (indicating at every step which law you have applied) as well as constructing the truth table.

	(a) p ∧ (p ∨ q) ≡ p 
	- $p \wedge p \equiv p$ - Domination Law
	- $p \equiv p$ - Idempotent Law

	(b) ¬(p ∨ ¬q) ∨ (¬p ∧ ¬q) ≡ ¬p
	- $\neg p \vee q \vee (\neg p \vee \neg q) \equiv \neg p$ -De Morgan, Double Negation
	- $\neg p \vee q \vee (\neg p \vee \neg q) \equiv \neg p$ -De Morgan, Double Negation


2. Show that each of the following implications is a tautology using the laws of logical equivalences. Indicate at every step which law you have applied.

	(a) $(p \wedge q) \rightarrow q$
	- True - Dominance

| p   | q   | $p \wedge q$ |
| --- | --- | ------------ |
| 0   | 1   |              |
| 1   | 0   |              |
| 1   | 1   |              |
| 0   | 0   |              |

	(b) (¬p ∧ (p ∨ q)) → q 
	- False

	(c) (p ∧ (p → q)) → q
	- True - Implication Law

1. Are (p → q) ∨ (q → r) and p → r equivalent statements? Prove your answer through a truth table or by developing logical equivalences. Also, try to arrive at the answer via abstract logical reasoning, without using any of the formal aids. Note it down.

| P   | Q   | R   | $(p \rightarrow r) \vee (q \rightarrow r)$ | $p \rightarrow r$ |
| --- | --- | --- | ------------------------------------------ | ----------------- |
| 1   | 1   | 1   | 1                                          | 1                 |
| 1   | 1   | 0   | 0                                          | 0                 |
| 1   | 0   | 0   | 0                                          | 0                 |
| 0   | 0   | 0   | 0                                          | 0                 |
| 1   | 0   | 1   | 1                                          | 1                 |
| 0   | 1   | 0   | 0                                          | 1                 |
| 0   | 1   | 1   | 1                                          | 1                 |
| 0   | 0   | 1   | 0                                          | 1                 |

1. State the converse and contrapositive of each of the following implications: 

	(a) If it snows tonight, then I will stay at home. 
	- Converse - If I'm at the house tonight it will be snowing
	- Contrapositive - If it doesn't snow and I'm in the house

	(b) I go to the beach whenever it is a sunny summer day. 
	- Converse - The day is sunny when I go to the beach
	- Contrapositive - If not sunny then I don't go to beach

	(c) When I stay up late, it is necessary that I sleep until noon.
	- Converse - If I've not stayed up late, it's not necessary that I sleep until noon.
	- Contra - If it's not necessary that I sleep until noon, I didn't stay up late.

2. During a murder investigation, you have gathered the following clues:

	1. if the knife is in the store room, then we saw it when we cleared the store room; 
	2. the murder was committed at the basement or inside the apartment; 
	3. if the murder was committed at the basement, then the knife is in the yellow dust bin;
	4. we did not see a knife when we cleared the store room; 
	5. . if the murder was committed outside the building, then we are unable to find the knife;
	6. if the murder was committed inside the apartment, then the knife is in the store room.