Ran through testing 3 different Leetcode questions, these were **1. Two Sum**, **9. Palindrome Number** (The classic two pointer solution) and **2563. Count the Number of Fair Pairs** the daily Leetcode.

**[Snippets Usability Analysis, Code Editor - 04/19/2025](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Qt59A6oEuyYFJVDRLP_pUEG1KQIkplz5VTMCN4S7clQ/edit?gid=0#gid=0)**

Overall **17** issues gathered, mostly just covering the code editor, the highlights being:

- Cursor doesn't match auto-indent, when I start a new line the next text entered will match the indentation but the caret doesn't.

- I used brackets `{}, [], ()` quite a bit and to have to navigate through the iOS keyboard to find it was quite annoying and time consuming.

- On copying and pasting into the code editor it sometimes moves the caret a few characters to the left, this makes it incredibly confusing for users to keep track, it gets reset on exiting and re-entering the editor.

- I found myself flicking between description and the code quite a lot when starting out, this ended up being quite annoying.

- No way to view whether I've started certain Snippets, I can't see if I've got a draft submission.

- UFT encoding breaking specific aspects of code, this would be really confusing for an inexperienced user using the app.

Next actions (Issues still to be raised):

- Fix cursor not matching auto indentation.

- Add a button for the three different sets of brackets, inside this we should provide the option to put an opening bracket, closing or a set. We should also add auto closing brackets for those placed manually - this should reduce a lot of frustration.

- Fix the caret being misaligned, maybe this would be a first step - <https://discuss.codemirror.net/t/caret-and-text-selection-misaligned/3062>

- Description is a tough one to fix, we don't want to over complicate the code editor itself but we can't afford people having to swap through, my go to thought was a split screen of some sort but the screen is already 50% keyboard so this might not be the best idea - still an idea.

	- Take a look into the Chinese alternative to leetcode, see how they handle this but the main idea is to not make it too technical.
	
	- Maybe see about making the transition to looking at description a bit smoother??
