#ui

 - This assessment is due 18th April. 
 - **Extensions are always available**. 
 - It is worth **20%** of your course grade. 
 - Your marks and feedback will be returned by the end of **12th May**.
 - It is a group assessment

**This assessment is made up of the following components:** 

1. Select an website from the provided list. 
2. Design three tasks for participants to complete. 
3. Have every member of another group complete the three tasks. 
4. Collate evaluator reports and generate a summary table. 
5. Write a summary of your findings (750 words). 
6. Contribution statement.

Please complete steps 1, 2 and 3 as soon as possible – ideally in the next day or two – so that the other group can start prepping for their video presentation

# Interface Selection

- You will be completing a heuristic evaluation of one of three possible websites. 
- Choose one of the following: 
	- **Yale Art School** 
	- **H&M** 
	- **Guide.com** 

- Design three short tasks that you will ask evaluators in another group to perform and report their findings on.

Example tasks:

- Find a given piece of content – Find the course speciation for the MSci in Computing Science on the University of Glasgow website.
- Browse a given topic – Find information on video games research on the University of Glasgow website.

# Evaluator Reports

- Using the Evaluator Report Template, the students in the next group after yours on Teams will act as evaluators in your heuristic evaluation. 
- You should collect all their reports for inclusion in your submission. 
- You should include all the evaluation reports completed by your group in your submission, too.

# Heuristic Evaluation

- Collate the reports you have collected into a matrix with usability problems on the x-axis and evaluators on the y-axis. 
- Once this is complete, write a summary of the results (up to 750 words) describing the issues uncovered during the evaluation.
- This should include a summary of the issues and a discussion of priority of each issue.