#dsf 
# Question 2

Which of the following operations might result in unexpected behaviour due to a floating point precision issue:

- A: 1 + 2
- B: 10 / 2
- C: 0.1 + 0.2 <----

Floating point values aren't guaranteed to be correct.

# Question 3

How can round-off errors impact the accuracy of numerical computations?

- A: They can lead to incorrect results or unexpected behaviour in mathematical ops. <----
- B: They have no effect on accuracy.
- C: They only affect the performance of computations but not the accuracy.
- D: They are only relevant when dealing with very large numbers.

Cannot expect them to be full correct, although mathematically the same floating point operations can lead to issues.


# Question 4

How can programmers mitigate the impact of round-off errors in numerical computations?

- A: By increasing the precision
- B: By minimising the number of arithmetic operations.
- C: By using algorithms designed to minimise error. <-----
- D: By avoiding the use of floating-point numbers altogether. <-----

All of them are good options but realistically we **should never** use floating point operations for financial calculations. Use decimal formats, with precisely defined roundoff rules (if roundoff can occur) for financial operations.

# Question 5

What is striding in the context of multidimensional arrays?

- A: It refers to the memory layout of the array elements.
- B: It specifies the number of dimensions of the array.
- C: It determines the size of each dimension in the array.
- D: It describes the step size between elements along each dimension. <-----

From **3.2.1 Strides and shape**

To implement multidimensional indexing, a key property of arrays, the standard "trick" is to use striding, with a set of memory offset constants ("strides") which specify how to index into the array, one per axis. This lets the system efficiently index into the array as if it were multidimensional, while keeping it as a single long sequence of numbers packed tightly into memory.

There is one **stride** per dimension, and each stride tells the system how many bytes forward to seek to find the next element for each dimension (it's called a "stride" because it's how big of a step in memory to take to get to the next element). For a 1D array, there is one stride, which will be the length of the numeric data type (e.g. 8 bytes for a standard float64).

For a 2D array x, the first element might be 8 (one float), and the second might be `8*x.shape[0]`. In other words, to move to the next column, add 8; to move to the next row, add 8 times the number of columns. Strides are usually given in bytes, not elements, to speed up memory access computations. 

*A strided 2D array*

To find the array element at index `[i,j]` in a 2D matrix, the memory offset from the start of the number block will be:` i * stride[0] + j * stride[1]` This generalises to higher dimensions (e.g. 3D, 4D tensors). To iterate through an array, the computations can simply increment by the appropriate stride to move to the next elements; for most operations.

***In summary it's essentially just pointer arithmetic.***

# Question 6

What is the point of a dope vector in the context of array manipulation?

- A: To specify the dimensions and shape of the array.
- B: To store additional metadata about the array, such as strides and data type.
- C: To perform mathematical operations on the array.
- D: To visualise the array in multiple dimensions.

From **3.2.2 Dope fiends**

This type of representation is correctly called a dope vector, where the dope vector refers to the striding information. It is held separately from the data itself; a header which specifies how to index.
