Propositional Logic has its limits. E.g., consider the following two TRUE propositions:
- p: Every GA student must study Practical Algorithms 
- q: Susan is a GA student

It seems like we should be able derive logically the proposition "Susan must study Practical Algorithms", since she belongs a certain SET (she is a GA student). The same should be true for anyone who is a GA student. A simple proposition like "Susan studies Practical Algorithms" is does not really express what we wish to state.

# Predicates – Definition
A predicate P is a propositional (or Boolean) function.

- a mapping from some domain (or universe) `U` to truth values (`true` or `false`) 
- `P : U ➝ {true, false}` ("➝" is not used as the if-then implication symbol here!) 
- for any element x of U, we have P(x) is either true or false

# Motivation for Quantifiers…

**We want to be able to BIND free variables to a SET of values from the Universe**

- This will allow is to convert a Predicate to a Proposition, that is, something that can be assigned a truth value.
- A lot of problems present themselves such that we are interested in knowing whether a given Predicate is true for all values from a given set, or if it's true for some (at least one) values.

e.g.:
- All values from U (All students at University of Glasgow) 
- All values from a certain sub-set of U (All GA students at University of Glasgow) 
- At least one value from U (At least one student from University of Glasgow) 
- At least one value from a certain sub-set of U (At least one GA student from University of Glasgow)

## Quantifiers – Universal: ∀
The universal quantifier asserts that a property holds for all values of a variable in a given "domain of discourse" (i.e., a set)

∀x.P(x) means: "for all values of x the predicate P(x) holds (is true)"

However, we should also state the domain (universe of discourse)*

∀x∈U.P(x) "for all values of x in domain U the predicate P(x) holds"

Example: ∀x∈{1,2,3}.P(x) is the same as P(1) ∧ P(2) ∧ P(3)
- note correspondence between universal quantification and conjunction ("and" operation)

## Quantifiers - Existential: ∃

∃x.P(x) "for some values of x the predicate P(x) holds (is true)"

However, again we should really state the domain ∃x∈U.P(x)

"for some values of x in domain U predicate P(x) holds"

Example: ∃x∈{1,2,3}.P(x) is the same as P(1) ∨ P(2) ∨ P(3)
- correspondence between existential quantification and disjunction ("or" operation)