#ui 

I have an experiment idea of wanting to discover how people feel about other people playing with smartwatches and using mobile phones while in a conversation. For this, I give ten people smartwatches, ten people mobile phones, and ten people with nothing and invite them to a party to eat snacks and drinks and use their mobile devices. After the party, I gave people questionnaires on their experiences while at the party and how well they felt someone listened to them and engaged in the conversation.

The key research question is:

- **RQ1**: Does using mobile phones and smartwatches in conversations affect how people feel while in conversation?

- **RQ2**: Do people prefer other people to use smartwatches or mobile phones during conversations?

# From This Experiment, in Groups Identify.

- **Internal**:
	- Wether people are friends before hand, this might make them more comfortable and less likely to be distracted by their watch.

- **External**:
	- Generalising this to people is insane, 30 for 7 billion might be a bit small of a fraction.

- **Dependent**:
	- Measure time on phone.

- **Independent**:
	- Phone or Smart watch
	- Age and Gender
	
- **Control**:
	- Ensure smartphone and smart watch is all the same brand.
	- Ensure time for party is considered.
	- The same language.

- **Random**:
	- Affinity to tech could be a big influence but this will be random.
	- Noise of room
		- Could put on white noise to balance out noise.
	- Who they talk to in the party.
		- Could control this by having a circle time where everyone talks.

- **Confounding**:
	- Whether alcohol is served could massively change the result, adds unpredictability, social lubricant etc.
		- Forcing those to take one shot on entry would make it a controlled variable.
	
- **If this is a within or between-subjects design**
	- Between Subjects, since we split into 3 groups and compare across all.