- [[Intro to POSIX Threads.pdf]]

- There are thread implementations in almost all programming languages; we will look at the C `pthread` library, it's essentially just a library which provides a few functions to handle threads.

- Many threading implementations are conceptually quite similar, and realise a particular thread lifecycle:

	- A thread is **created**: starts executing a specified function, with some arguments, and is given an identifier 
	
	- A thread can **wait** for another thread to terminate 
	
	- A thread can **cancel** another thread 
	
	- A thread **terminates** either by calling exit or when its main function ends 
	 
	- **Communication** between threads happens through modifying the state of **shared variables**

Part of the `POSIX` (`Portable Operating System Interface`) specification collection, defining an API for thread creation and management (`pthread.h`)

# Implementation

- `POSIX` Threads is the most used threading implementation for C 

- To use it we need to `#include <pthread.h>` and specify a compiler flag (`–lpthread`)

```c
#include <stdio.h> 
#include <stdlib.h> 
#include <pthread.h>  // <-- Notice <pthread.h>
#include <assert.h> 

void * PrintHelloWorld(void*) {
	printf("Hello World from a thread!\n");
	return NULL;
}

int main() {
	pthread_t thread;
	
	int error = pthread_create(
		&thread,
		NULL,
		PrintHelloWorld,
		NULL
	);
	assert(error == 0);
	printf("Created thread\n"); 
	
	error = pthread_join(thread, NULL);
	assert(error == 0);
}

// Run through clang -Wall -Werror program.c -lpthread -o program
```

## `pthread_create()`

- Create a new thread in the same process, with a given routine and argument

- **Arguments**:

	1. **Thread Identifier**: Pointer to a `pthread_t` variable that will store the new thread's ID.
		
	2. **Attributes**: A pointer to set thread properties (e.g., scheduling, stack size). Use `NULL` for default settings.
		
	3. **Start Routine**: A pointer to the function the thread will execute. This function must:
		
	    - Take a `void*` argument.
	    - Return a `void*` result.
	    - These are generic pointers that can point to any data.
		
	4. **Argument**: A `void*` pointer passed to the start routine (can be used to pass data).

- **Return Value**:
	- `0`: Success.
	- Non-zero: Error code.

- Passing pointers to and from `start_routine` allows the passing of arbitrary data 
- It requires care to ensure that the memory locations pointed to have appropriate lifetime

- **Example**:

```c
#include <pthread.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#define NUM_THREADS 5

void *PrintHello(void *threadid) {
	long tid; tid = (long)threadid;
	printf("Hello World! It's me, thread #%ld!\n", tid);
	pthread_exit(NULL);
}

int main(int argc, char *argv[]) {
	pthread_t threads[NUM_THREADS];
	 int rc; 
	 long t;
	 
	 for (t=0; t<NUM_THREADS; t++) {
		 printf("In main: creating thread %ld\n", t);
		 rc = pthread_create(&threads[t], NULL, PrintHello, (void *)t);
		 if (rc) {
			 printf("ERROR; return code from pthread_create() is %d\n", rc);
			 exit(-1);
		}
	}
	pthread_exit(NULL);
}
```

## `pthread_exit(), pthread_cancel()`

- Terminate a thread from inside (→ exit) or outside (→ cancel) of the thread

## `pthread_join()`

- Blocks the caller until the specified thread terminates
- Only one joining thread per target is allowed
- If the thread gave an exit code to `pthread_exit()`, it can be determined her

- **Arguments**:

	- A thread identifier
	- A pointer to a memory location of type `void *`
		- The return value of the `start_routine` (== a generic pointer), as passed to `pthread_create`, will be copied to this location

- **Example**:

```c
int* return_value;

int error = pthread_join(thread, (void**) &return_value);

assert(error == 0); 

if (return_value) {
	printf("return_value: \n", *return_value);
}

// maybe: free(return_value);
```